Guidelines on product oversight and governance arrangements for retail banking products
Status:
Final and translated into the EU official languages
The mis-conduct of financial institutions can cause significant consumer detriment, undermine market confidence, threaten the integrity of the financial system, and incur large costs to wider society. In order to address some of these conduct risks, the EBA has developed detailed Guidelines on product oversight and governance arrangements for the retail banking products that fall into its consumer protection remit, which are: mortgages, personal loans, deposits, payment accounts, payment services, and electronic money. The Guidelines provide a framework for robust and responsible product design and distribution by manufacturers and distributors.
Summary of document history
Previous versions
2015
Current version
Ongoing versions
Consultation on Guidelines on product oversight and governance arrangements for retail banking products
Status:
Closed
Deadline:
9 OCTOBER 2025
Documents
Consultation paper on draft revised Guidelines on product oversight and governance
(430.88 KB - PDF)
Download
BSG response to Consultation on draft amending Guidelines on product oversight and governance arrangements for retail banking products to take into account products with ESG features and greenwashing risks
(181.12 KB - PDF)
Download
Responses
The form is now closed.
Received responses to the EBA
1.
BEUC - The European Consumer Organisation
2.
Fédération Bancaire Française
3.
European Savings and Retail Banking Group (ESBG)
4.
ANASF
5.
German Banking Industry Committee - Die Deutsche Kreditwirtschaft
6.
BIPAR
7.
European Association of Co-operative Banks (EACB)
8.
ABBL - Association Banques et Banquiers Luxembourgeois
9.
Finance Denmark
10.
FECIF - The European Federation of Financial Advisers and Financial Intermediaries
Public hearings
Public hearing on the revision of the Guidelines on product oversight and governance arrangements for retail banking products to consider products with ESG features and greenwashing risks
Public hearing presentation
(1.12 MB - PDF)
Download
Press contacts
Franca Rosa Congiu
press@eba.europa.eu
+33 1 86 52 7052